.TH PACSEEK 1 "2024 March" "pacseek 1.8.3"

.SH NAME

pacseek \- A TUI for searching and installing Arch Linux packages

.SH SYNOPSIS

.SY pacseek
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ search\-term ]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.ad l

.PP
.B pacseek
is terminal user interface which allows you to browse and search through
the Arch Linux package databases as well as the Arch User Repository.

.PP
Package installation/removal is done with an AUR helper.
Make sure you have one installed.
In the default configuration,
.B yay
is being used. You can change this in the settings.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-r " repo1,repo2 " \fR...
Limit searching to a comma separated list of repositories

.TP
.BI \-s " search\-term"
Search term when used with the
.B \-r
option

.TP
.B \-a
ASCII mode

.TP
.B \-m
Monochrome mode

.TP
.B \-u
Show upgrades after startup

.TP
.B \-i
Show installed packages after startup

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help and exit

.SH KEY BINDINGS

.TP
.B Enter
Search;
.br
Install or remove a selected package

.TP
.BR Tab ", " Ctrl+Up / Down / Left / Right
Navigate between boxes

.TP
.BR Up / Down ", " j / k
Scroll through the package list

.TP
.BR Shift+Left / Right
Change size of package list

.TP
.B Ctrl+s
Open/Close settings

.TP
.B Ctrl+n
Show help/key bindings

.TP
.B Ctrl+u
Perform sysupgrade

.TP
.B Ctrl+a
Perform AUR upgrade (if configured)

.TP
.B Ctrl+w
Wipe cache

.TP
.B Ctrl+p
Show PKGBUILD for selected package

.TP
.B Ctrl+o
Open URL for selected package

.TP
.B Ctrl+g
Show list of upgradable packages

.TP
.B Ctrl+l
Show list of all installed packages

.TP
.B Ctrl+b
Show about/version information

.TP
.BR Esc ", " Ctrl+q
Quit

.TP
.B Shift+n
Sort by package name

.TP
.B Shift+s
Sort by source/repository

.TP
.B Shift+i
Sort by installed state

.TP
.B Shift+m
Sort by last modified date

.TP
.B Shift+p
Sort by popularity (AUR packages)

.SH CONFIGURATION

.PP
All configurations files are formatted in JSON.

.SS General settings

.PP
When pacseek is started the first time, it will generate a configuration file
.IR ~/.config/pacseek/config.json .
You can either manually edit this file or use the settings screen make changes.

.PP
Save any changes that you've made with the
.B Apply & Save
button.

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurRpcUrl\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The URL to the aurweb/RPC endpoint.
This endpoint provides REST APIs that are used for searching.

The default is
.I https://aurapi.moson.org/rpc
(not the official AUR one).

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurTimeout\(dq\fR: " number
How long to wait for a response from the AUR/RPC endpoint (in milliseconds).
If the timeout is exceeded only the list of repository packages are returned.

The default is
.IR 5000 .

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurSearchDelay\(dq\fR: " number
The delay (in milliseconds) that is applied before we start querying for
package details (mostly obsolete in the latest versions of pacseek).
It will only be applied when the cache is disabled or the entries in the cache
have expired and you are navigating through the result list.
In that case, it will query package information again from the AUR
but wait for a certain amount of time before doing so.
That's being done to not run unnecessary queries
(e.g. if you quickly navigate through the result list).

The default is
.IR 500 .

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurUseDifferentCommands\(dq\fR: " bool
Use separate commands repository and AUR packages installing/upgrading.
Once enabled, the new commands should be configured in the
.BR AurInstallCommand " and " AurUpgradeCommand
options.

The default is
.IR false .

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurInstallCommand\(dq\fR: " string
Install command for AUR packages when
.B AurUseDifferentCommands
is enabled.

.TP
.BI "\(dqAurUpgradeCommand\(dq\fR: " string
Upgrade command for AUR packages when
.B AurUseDifferentCommands
is enabled.

.TP
.BI "\(dqDisableAur\(dq\fR: " bool
When enabled, The AUR will not be queried when searching.
Only the repositories defined in
.I pacman.conf
will be searched.

The default is
.IR false .

.TP
.BI "\(dqMaxResults\(dq\fR: " number
The maximum number of results that are displayed in the result list.
Note that when
.B SearchMode
is set to
.IR StartsWith ,
it is limited to 100 results from the AUR.
This is a limitation of an API call that is being used
(using the official endpoint has an even lower maximum of 20 results).

The default is
.IR 500 .

.TP
.BI "\(dqPacmanDbPath\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The path to the pacman database files.

The default is
.IR /var/lib/pacman/ .

.TP
.BI "\(dqPacmanConfigPath\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The path to the pacman configuration file

The default is
.IR /etc/pacman.conf .

.TP
.BI "\(dqInstallCommand\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The command that is being run when installing a package.
The package name is appended to this command.
You can also use the placeholder
.I {pkg}
in your command which will be replaced by the package name
(in this case the package name will not being appended).

The default is
.IR "yay \-S" .

.TP
.BI "\(dqUninstallCommand\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The command that is being run when uninstalling a package.

The default is
.IR "yay \-Rs" .

.TP
.BI "\(dqSysUpgradeCommand\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The command that is being run when upgrading packages with
.B Ctrl+u

The default is
.IR yay .

.TP
.BI "\(dqSearchMode\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
There are two search modes available.
With the
.IR Contains
(default) option, it will show results where the name/description contains the
search\-term at any position.
When using the
.I StartsWith
option, only those packages are shown where the very beginning of a package
name/description matched the search\-term.

.TP
.BI "\(dqSearchBy\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
When set to
.I Name
(default), only the package name will be matched against the search\-term.
Setting this to
.I Name & Description
will match the the search\-term with the description as well.

.TP
.BI "\(dqCacheExpiry\(dq\fR: " number
The time (in minutes) until the cached search and package info data expires.

The default is
.IR 10 .

.TP
.BI "\(dqDisableCache\(dq\fR: " bool
Search results will be cached so that we do not query the AUR for
package details each time you navigate to another package in the result list.
Enabling this option will completely disable caching and
force pacseek to run a request every time you search or select another package.

Disabling the cache is not recommended since it wasting server resources
(this option may be removed in the future).

The default is
.IR false .

.TP
.BI "\(dqColorScheme\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The color schemes available are
.IR "Arch Linux " (default),
.IR "Endeavour OS" ,
.IR Red ,
.IR Green ,
.IR Blue ,
.IR Orange ,
.IR Monochrome .

If you want to define your own color scheme, set it to
.IR Custom .
This will generate a file
.I ~/.config/pacseek/colors.json
in which you can change the color for various UI elements.

.TP
.BI "\(dqTransparent\(dq\fR: " bool
When checked, pacseek will use a transparent background color instead of black.

The default is
.IR false.

.TP
.BI "\(dqBorderStyle\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
Choose how the borders are being drawn.
The styles available are
.IR Double " (default),"
.IR Thick ,
.IR Single ,
.IR Round .

.TP
.BI "\(dqGlyphStyle\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The glyph styles available are
.IR Plain ,
.IR Angled ,
.IR Round ,
.IR Curly ,
.IR Pipes ,
.IR ASCII ,
.IR Plain-No-X ,
.IR "Angled-No-X " (default),
.IR Round-No-X ,
.IR Curly-No-X ,
.IR Pipes-No-X ,
.IR ASCII-No-X .

If you want to define your own glyph style, set it to
.IR Custom .
This will generate a file
.I ~/.config/pacseek/glyphs.json
in which you can the glyphs used for various UI elements.

.TP
.BI "\(dqSaveWindowLayout\(dq\fR: " bool
When checked, the current layout is saved

The default is
.IR false.

.TP
.BI "\(dqShowPkgbuildCommand\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The command that is being executed when clicking on
.B Show PKGBUILD
in the details or by pressing
.BR Ctrl+p .
The term
.I {url}
will be replaced by the PKGBUILD url
(it should be included in your custom command).

This option is only applicable when
.B ShowPkgbuildInternally
is disabled

The default is
.IR "curl \-s \(dq{url}\(dq | less" .

.TP
.BI "\(dqShowPkgbuildInternally\(dq\fR: " bool
When enabled, the PKGBUILD file will be displayed within pacseek.

The default is
.IR true.

.TP
.BI "\(dqDisableNewsFeed\(dq\fR: " bool
When checked, the news feed will be disabled.

The default is
.IR false.

.TP
.BI "\(dqFeedURLs\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
The RSS feed URL(s) for displaying news items.
Multiple URL's can be specified by separating them with a semi-colon.

This option is only applicable when
.B DisableNewsFeed
is unchecked

The default is
.IR "https://archlinux.org/feeds/news/".

.TP
.BI "\(dqFeedMaxItems\(dq\fR: " number
The maximum number of news items to display.

This option is only applicable when
.B DisableNewsFeed
is unchecked

The default is
.IR 5.

.TP
.BI "\(dqEnableAutoSuggest\(dq\fR: " bool
When enabled, a list of package names is shown while typing

The default is
.IR false .

.TP
.BI "\(dqComputeRequiredBy\(dq\fR: " bool
When enabled, it will compute the list of
.B Required by
packages and display it in the details.
This is resource intensive and should be enabled only if you really need it.

The default is
.IR false .

.TP
.BI "\(dqPackageColumnWidth\(dq\fR: " number
The width for the package column.
Set it to 0 to dynamically adjust the width.

The default is
.IR 0.

.TP
.BI "\(dqSepDepsWithNewLine\(dq\fR: " bool
When enabled, pacseek will separate the list of
.B Dependencies
(in the details) with a new line instead of comma.

The default is
.IR true .

.SS Glyph customization

.PP
These settings are used after setting the
.B GlyphStyle
option to
.IR Custom .
This will generate a file at
.I ~/.config/pacseek/glyphs.json
which should be edited with the following options

.TP
.B Glyph options

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPackage\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqInstalled\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqNotInstalled\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPrefixState\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSuffixState\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSettings\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPkgbuild\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqHelp\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqUpgrades\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.RE

.SS Color scheme settings

.PP
These settings are used after setting the
.B ColorScheme
option to
.IR Custom .
This will generate a file at
.I ~/.config/pacseek/colors.json
which should be edited with the following options

.TP
.B Color options
These options should be set with hexadecimal color codes (e.g.
.IR ffff00
for yellow).

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqAccent\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqTitle\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSearchBar\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPackagelistSourceRepository\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPackagelistSourceAUR\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqPackagelistHeader\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSettingsFieldBackground\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSettingsFieldText\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSettingsFieldLabel\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.IP \(bu 2
.BI "\(dqSettingsDropdownNotSelected\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
.RE

.TP
.B Syntax highlighting

.RS
.TP
.BI "\(dqStylePKGBUILD\(dq\fR: " \(dqstring\(dq
Syntax highlighting for the PKGBUILD when
.B ShowPkgbuildInternally
is enabled.

The available styles for this option are
.IR abap ,
.IR algol ,
.IR algol_nu ,
.IR api ,
.IR arduino ,
.IR autumn ,
.IR borland ,
.IR bw ,
.IR colorful ,
.IR dracula ,
.IR emacs ,
.IR friendly ,
.IR fruity ,
.IR github ,
.IR igor ,
.IR lovelace ,
.IR manni ,
.IR monokai ,
.IR monokailight ,
.IR murphy ,
.IR native ,
.IR paraiso\-dark ,
.IR paraiso\-light ,
.IR pastie ,
.IR perldoc ,
.IR pygments ,
.IR rainbow_dash ,
.IR rrt ,
.IR solarized\-dark ,
.IR solarized\-dark256 ,
.IR solarized\-light ,
.IR swapoff ,
.IR tango ,
.IR trac ,
.IR vim ,
.IR vs ,
.IR xcode .

These styles can previewed
.UR https://xyproto.github.io/splash/docs/all.html
here
.UE .
.RE

.SH FILES

.TP
.I ~/.config/pacseek/config.json
The default configuration file

.TP
.I ~/.config/pacseek/colors.json
Custom color scheme settings

.SH REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to
.UR https://github.com/moson\-mo/pacseek/issues
GitHub Issues
.UE .

.SH AUTHORS

.MT mo\-son@mailbox.org
Mario Oenning
.ME

.SH SEE ALSO

See the
.UR https://github.com/moson\-mo/pacseek/wiki
pacseek wiki
.UE
for more information

.BR pacman "(8), " pacman.conf (5)
